# dyngen manuscript
dyngen is a multi-modal simulator for spearheading single-cell omics analyses. 
This repository contains all code necessary to reproduce the corresponding manuscript.
For documentation of dyngen (examples, vignettes, instructions), visit the dyngen repository: [https://github.com/dynverse/dyngen](https://github.com/dynverse/dyngen).

## Install dependencies
Clone the repository as follows.
```bash
# clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/dynverse/dyngen_manuscript
cd dyngen_manuscript
```

Open the R project file inside Rstudio and run the following code.

```r
# install the R package and its dependencies
devtools::install("package/", dependencies = TRUE)
```

## Reproducing an analysis
For each separate experiment, the code to reproduce the analysis can be found in the [analysis](analysis) folder. Any output generated by those scripts will be stored in the [results](results) folder. Note that each of the scripts assume that the working directory is the dyngen_manuscript folder.

* [analysis/usecase_network_inference](analysis/usecase_network_inference): Evaluating the performance of cell-specific network inference algorithms.
* [analysis/usecase_rna_velocity](analysis/usecase_rna_velocity): Evaluating the performance of RNA velocity algorithms.
* [analysis/usecase_trajectory_alignment](analysis/usecase_trajectory_alignment): Evaluating the performance of trajectory algorithms.
* [analysis/summary](analysis/summary): Generate overview figures which summarise the aforementioned experiments.
* [analysis/showcase_backbones](analysis/showcase_backbones): Generate visualisations for each of the predefined dyngen backbones.
* [analysis/example_methods_overview](analysis/example_methods_overview): Small example for illustrating particular aspects in the methods section.

## Build the manuscript
The complete manuscript (including supplementary files) can be built from the [manuscript/render.Rmd](manuscript/render.Rmd) file, which can by build by running the following code inside R.

```r
library(rmarkdown)
render("manuscript/render.Rmd")
```
